+++
title = "Developing the HeART: Tracking racial heterogeneity in fiction reading habits"
date = 2016-05-16T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rabinowitz, M.", "Alaoui Soci, A.", "**Buttrick, N.**", "Tamir, D."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Reading Research Quarterly*"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Tracing the stories people have read may help us understand their beliefs and social attitudes. In this study, we develop and validate a scale to measure racial diversity in people's fiction reading: the Heterogeneous Author Recognition Test (HeART). To validate the scale, participants completed the HeART alongside measures of vocabulary, reading comprehension, and self-reported reading habits. Our results suggest that the HeART is a valid measure of (1) how much people read overall and (2) the racial composition of people's reading habits. Initial results also suggest that more diverse reading habits are associated with lower anti-Black prejudice. Together, these findings validate the HeART as a measure of the racial diversity in individuals' long-term reading habits that may facilitate research on the relationship between habitual race-specific reading and interpersonal attitudes."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Article", url = "https://doi.org/10.1002/rrq.70093"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

+++

