+++
title = "New directions in social psychological interventions to improve academic achievement"
date = 2016-04-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Wilson, T. D.", "Buttrick, N. R."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Educational Psychology*"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Attempts to improve student achievement typically focus on changing the educational environment (e.g., better schools, better teachers) or on personal characteristics of students (e.g., intelligence, self-control). The 6 articles in this special issue showcase an additional approach, emanating from social psychology, which focuses on students’ beliefs and understandings of themselves and their environments. Previous studies have shown that small interventions designed to change student beliefs (e.g., attributions, mindsets, self-stories) can result in long-term academic improvement, and the 6 articles in this special issue build on and extend the social psychological approach in significant ways, demonstrating at scales both small and large, how these beliefs come to be, how to change them, and how they actually work to create academic improvement. We discuss the both the promise and limits of this approach."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "files/JEP2016Preprint.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Article", url = "http://psycnet.apa.org/doiLanding?doi=10.1037%2Fedu0000111"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

+++

