+++
title = "Cross-cultural consistency and relativity in the enjoyment of thinking versus doing"
date = 2018-04-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Buttrick, N. R.", "Choi, H.", "Wilson, T. D.", "Oishi, S.", "Boker, S. M.", "Gilbert, D. T", "Alper, S.", "Aveyard, M.", "Cheong, W.", "Colic, M. V.", "Dalgar, I.", "Dogulu, C.", "Karabati, S.", "Kim, E.", "Knezevic, G.", "Komiya, A.", "Lacle, C. O.", "Lage, C. A.", "Lazarevic, L. B.", "Lazarevic, D.", "Lins, S.", "Molina, M. B.", "Neto, F.", "Orlic, A.", "Petrovic, B.", "Sibaja, M. A.", "Fernandez, D. T.", "Vanpaemel, W.", "Voorspoels, W.", "Wilks, D. C."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Personality and Social Psychology*"
publication_short = "*JPSP*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Which is more enjoyable: trying to think enjoyable thoughts or doing everyday solitary activities? Wilson et al (2014) found that American participants much preferred solitary everyday activities, such as reading or watching TV, to thinking for pleasure. To see whether this preference generalized outside of the United States, we replicated the study with 2,557 participants from 12 sites in 11 countries. The results were consistent in every country: Participants randomly assigned to do something reported significantly greater enjoyment than did participants randomly assigned to think for pleasure. Although we found systematic differences by country in how much participants enjoyed thinking for pleasure, these differences were fully accounted for by country-level variation in 5 individual differences, 4 of which were positively correlated with thinking for pleasure (need for cognition, openness to experience, meditation experience, and initial positive affect) and 1 of which was negatively correlated (reported phone usage)."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "files/JPSP2018Preprint.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = "https://osf.io/av2t9/"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Article", url = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352250X17300866"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

+++

